{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red206\green59\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red254\green73\blue64;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12800\viewh13860\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 Files:
\fs28 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf0 1990 - 2015 state/count expectancies.R
\b0\fs28  \'97 R file used to get generic run expectancy matrix for the 24 base/out states and for each of the different counts. As a base file, only needs to be run once at the beginning of the season with the addition of the new retrosheet game logs for the given year. Takes 30-40 minutes to run. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf0 1990.2015.RE.States.Count.csv
\b0\fs28   \'97 csv written by 1990 - 2015 state/count expectancies.R and used in main R file (RE-VA.R). Contains the run expectancy for the 24 base/out states and for a given count. \

\b\fs32 activePlayers.csv
\b0\fs28  \'97 file with active players including name, slug, and current team. Needs to be updated frequently to get newly activated players. Use 
\b activePlayers - script.R
\b0  to run through all teams for list of all players. \

\b\fs32 AL-standings.csv
\b0\fs28  \'97 win/loss record for each team v. team combo. Used to get current winning percentage for each team as well as interleague record for interleague games. Updated each time ALstandings.py is run (which is run when RE-VA.R is run)  \

\b\fs32 ALstandings.py 
\b0\fs28 \'97 script to scrape the current ESPN MLB standings grid to get the winning percentage for each team (runs automatically when RE-VA.R is run).\

\b\fs32 batterBA.py 
\b0\fs28 \'97 script to scrape current player\'92s batting average from ESPN (runs automatically when RE-VA.R is run)\

\b\fs32 batterPercentages.py
\b0\fs28  \'97 script to scrape current player\'92s percentages for hitting a single, double, triple, or homerun from ESPN (runs automatically when RE-VA.R is run)\

\b\fs32 BPF-script.R 
\b0\fs28 \'97 script to get updated batting park factors for all 30 teams in order to be referenced in run expectancy. Needs to be updated at the start of the new season with new game logs data from Retrosheet. *** This updates the current teams csv so that each team\'92s BPF is appended to the corresponding row. 
\b\fs32 \
deltaState.csv
\b0\fs28  \'97 file with states and new states given a single, double, triple, or homerun. Used to figure out the change in win probability if a single is hit (or double, etc.) and then used to evaluate how the batter should change the win probability. Does not need to be updated.\

\b\fs32 fields2.csv
\b0\fs28  \'97 file of header names for gamelogs.merged.csv file\

\b\fs32 gamelogs.merged.csv
\b0\fs28  \'97 game logs from 2010-2015. Used to calculate Batting Park Factors. Only needs to be run at the beginning of the season with the addition of the most recent year of gamelogs from retrosheet \'97 writes to csv for every park in MLB.\

\b\fs32 guts_table_2016.csv
\b0\fs28  \'97 ESPN table with league wOBA and scale for each year. Needs to be updated frequently to maintain current year\'92s stats correctly. In order to update, use guts-table-script.R for new csv file. \

\b\fs32 leagueBA.py
\b0\fs28  \'97 script to scrape the batting average for a given league (\'91AL\'92 or \'91NL\'92) from ESPN (runs automatically when RE-VA.R is run)\

\b\fs32 NL-standings.csv 
\b0\fs28 \'97 win/loss record for each team v. team combo. Used to get current winning percentage for each team as well as interleague record for interleague games. Updated each time NLstandings.py is run (which is run when RE-VA.R is run)\

\b\fs32 NLstandings.py
\b0\fs28  \'97 script to scrape the current ESPN MLB standings grid to get the winning percentage for each team (runs automatically when RE-VA.R is run)\

\b\fs32 pitcher.info.csv
\b0\fs28  \'97 Left handed splits, right handed splits, and average splits for all current pitchers as well as pitcher names, current teams, starter or reliever, retrosheet id, retrosheet name, and debut date.\

\b\fs32 RE-VA.R
\b0\fs28  \'97 main R file called on by shinyapp server for calculations of run expectancy and win probability\

\b\fs32 Run.Environments.csv
\b0\fs28  \'97 run environments from 1990 - 2016. Needs to be updated frequently to main current year\'92s stats correctly. Use 
\b RunEnvironment - script.R
\b0  to update.\

\b\fs32 server.R
\b0\fs28  \'97 server for shinyapp \

\b\fs32 set_token.R
\b0\fs28  \'97 stattleship file (1 of 3). Files are used to get the current stats using API in RE-VA.R file.\

\b\fs32 splits.csv
\b0\fs28  - batter splits from previous year. Needs to be updated at the start of each season with the splits from the previous year.\

\b\fs32 ss_get_result.R
\b0\fs28  \'97 another stattleship file\

\b\fs32 teams2016.csv
\b0\fs28  \'97 current mlb teams and abbreviations for different sites used (retrosheet, espn, etc)\

\b\fs32 ui.R
\b0\fs28  \'97 ui for shinyapp\

\b\fs32 WPstates.csv
\b0\fs28  \'97 basic win probabililty for giving inning, state, and run differential (home.score - away.score). Run on data from 2010-2015 \'97 needs to be rerun at the start of every season with new year of retrosheet data. To update, run wpstates-script.R with the addition of the new retrosheet data.\

\b\fs32 zzz.R
\b0\fs28  \'97 another stattleship file \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs48 \cf0 Steps:\

\fs32 Update At Beginning of Season:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}1990 - 2015 RE States Count.csv \'97 use 
\i 1990 - 2015 state/count expectancies.R
\i0 \
{\listtext	\'95	}activeplayers.csv \'97 use 
\i activePlayers - script.R\
\ls1\ilvl0
\i0 {\listtext	\'95	}teams2016.csv (BPF column as well as addition or subtraction of any major league teams) \'97 use 
\i BPF-script.R
\i0  for BPF changes and manually insert or delete team rows\
{\listtext	\'95	}gamelogs.merged.csv \'97 obtain new year of game logs from retrosheet and merge with 1990-2015 csv \cf2 (# Need to get new data at the beginning of each season. \
# Merge new season with current data (so 15 years of data in 2016 -- 16 years of data in 2017, etc) -- terminal function: cat newfile(i.e. GL2016.csv) allfiles(i.e. gamelogs.merged.csv) > gamelogs.merged.csv\
# run script with updated data\
# for data file: http://www.retrosheet.org/game.html\
# for gamelogs file: http://www.retrosheet.org/gamelogs/index.html)\cf0 \
{\listtext	\'95	}pitcher.info.csv \'97 use 
\i activePitchers - script.R
\i0  \
{\listtext	\'95	}activePlayers.csv \'97 use 
\i activePlayers - script.R\
\ls1\ilvl0
\i0 {\listtext	\'95	}\cf3 splits.csv \'97 use {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/chadwickbureau/retrosplits/tree/master/splits"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/chadwickbureau/retrosplits/tree/master/splits}} and select \'93batting-platoon-(past complete season).csv once data becomes available\cf0 \
{\listtext	\'95	}WPstates.csv \'97 use 
\i wpstates-script.R 
\i0 \cf4 \
{\listtext	\'95	}pitcher.info.csv \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Update as Frequently as Possible:
\i \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\i0 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}guts_table_2016.csv \'97 use guts-table-script.R\
{\listtext	\'95	}Run.Environments.csv \'97 use 
\i RunEnvironment \'97 script.R 
\i0\fs48 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}